# GranularAI
This project aims to use machine learning methods to optimize packing densities in granular matter. Employing dimensional reduction, regression techniques, and numerical optimization, we search for novel dense packing shapes, which are then tested in the Molecular Dynamics simulations using LAMMPS. 
This project refers to the paper titled "Machine learning approaches for the optimization
of packing densities in granular matter", which can be found in [https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2023/sm/d2sm01430k](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2023/sm/d2sm01430k).

In this project, we use the dataset generated by Roth & Jaeger in [https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2016/sm/c5sm02335a#!](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2016/sm/c5sm02335a#!) for particle shapes consisting of n = 5 overlapping spheres.

## 1) Machine Learning implementations 
This part provides the codes for the following steps:
1) dimensionality reduction of the shape space with principal component analysis
2) regression in the reduced shape space
3) numerical optimization
   
to identify novel dense packing shapes. 

## 2) Packing simulations
We provide molecule files and input scripts to run simulations in LAMMPS for the predicted particle shapes obtained in the first part. A molecule file requires to specify the volume and moment of inertia of the molecule (particle consisting of n=5 overlapping spheres). Therefore, we also provide the Monte-Carlo simulation codes (written in Jupiter Notebook) to measure the volume and moment of inertia of the molecules.

## 3) Packing density calculation
We introduce two different methods to calculate packing density: *Voronoi* and *Centroid* method. The codes for these calculations are written in Jupyter Notebook. 

More details can be found in the Documentation.pdf. 

## 4) Results
Here, we provide the predicted shapes, their volume and moment of inertia calculated in part 2, the simulation output files for one molecule, and the packing densities for all the molecules measured with the different methods. The Mathematica notebook used to create some of the plots is also included.
